lost some of your seo traffic no worries
there's a solution for that hey everyone
i'm neil patel and today i'm going to
teach you how to recover your lost seo
traffic
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
one thing i want you to do is check the
url on this screen it's a penalty
indicator so you can go to that url and
it'll show you if your traffic loss is
related to google algorithm update in
addition to that i want you to check
google search console for a manual
penalty because if you have a manual
penalty and they tell you what it's for
you need to fix that as well
now if you have a traffic drop from a
specific algorithm update it doesn't
mean there's a penalty necessarily right
it just means google adjusted algorithm
and sometimes you'll gain more traffic
sometimes you lose some traffic
sometimes you stay roughly the same and
there's a lot of articles around the web
specifically on search engine roundtable
because you can just google that date
time frame and the algorithm update name
and they'll tell you hey here's what
people are seeing and you'll see notes
from people saying this is what we
noticed the algorithm affected you know
make this change and you can potentially
get traffic but i want to break down
what i would do when you lose traffic
and we get clients our companies coming
to us all the time to our ad agency np
digital being like we lost a lot of
traffic we need your guys's help and we
help people recover it and we got a
formula it works and i want to break
down some of those steps
the first thing you need to do is go to
ubersuggest and run a seo audit so
there's a site audit feature within
ubersuggest
and what it'll do is it'll break down
your overall site the health your load
speed um it'll look at you know google
core web vitals and any issues and
what's cool about this report is it
prioritizes what you need to fix in
order
based on
what is going to drive you the most
traffic so follow the order and fix the
stuff number two check your website for
malware so do a search on google for
your domain and see if you spot anything
where like sitecolin neilpatel.com and
if you see anything weird or titles in
your page that you haven't created or
anything that could be pushing fake
content you know there could be
something wrong and that can impact your
traffic as well and you want to make
sure that gets fixed i want you to use
sucuri to scan your website for malware
as well you can go to the url on the
screen sitecheck.security.net
and that'll help you figure out that hey
is something wrong happening
next i want you to run a link audit
you'll be shocked sometimes you'll get
really bad sites from adult sites or
gambling sites or pill sites linking to
you that you don't want just because
someone's trying to tarnish your
rankings so go to ubersuggest and put in
your url and see if there's any links
that look shady and look at the anchor
text uber says will break down the
anchor text of the sites linking to you
if you see any funny keywords like any
pill names like cialis or viagra and
funny enough believe it or not we see
this sometimes with client sites you
want to get all this stuff cleaned up
disavow them try to remove them
and in most cases google's really good
they don't really try to penalize you
for bad links that they know that you
may have not created in most cases they
just ignore them
also what i want you to do is if you're
trying to recover your traffic i want
you to go into google search console
next
and i want you to do a time comparison
so in the date range pick the last 28
days i don't know why they default to
last 28 days but instead of last 30 days
but go to the last 28 days
and then compare it to you know a year
ago 28 days
or you can do custom and you can look at
maybe you know 28 days three four months
ago
and you want to look at all the articles
that were getting more traffic in the
past than they are now
and click on those urls within google
search console when you click on those
urls you'll see a list of keywords what
are the keywords that you used to rank
for but don't rank for i recommend
searching for each of those keywords on
google look at all the sites that are
ranking at the top what are their
articles covering that yours don't
is it that yours is still and outdated
is it that there's way more thorough and
end up is it that
you know they
aren't as in-depth but they answer the
question like how to tie a tie in 10
seconds while you explain how to tie a
tie in 3 000 words that no one really
wants to read and said they just want to
know how to tie a tie right then and
there
and that'll give you an understanding of
what you need to adjust your content to
and i also want you to look for any
cannibalization that you have while
you're in google search console what i
mean by this is you may see multiple
pages ranking for the same keywords if
you see that you may want to consider
combining some of those pages together
so if i have two pages ranking for the
word digital marketing
and they're almost identical what i
would do is i'll take the weaker one
that's not getting as much traffic based
on google search console and do a 301
redirect to the more popular one and
i'll take the content from the weaker
one and make sure anything i didn't talk
about in the stronger page also includes
those elements in addition to that i
would go back and use screaming frog and
crawl my site to see if any of my
internal pages also links to the week or
article and i would change those urls to
the newer one so on top of doing the 301
redirect you need to change your
internal links as well to ensure that
you're updating your site
lastly what i would do is make sure you
delete any content that is irrelevant
you don't need a site with a million
pages you're not wikipedia you're not
new york times it's better to have a
thousand pages or a hundred pages that
are super super strong and end up than
thorough than five million pages with 99
of them being weak thin content that no
one cares to read you're spreading your
juice you know your authority
to too many pages that are weak and it
can actually hurt your ranking versus
having less content about.com which is
owned by the new york times
eventually got rid of the domain name
about.com
split their site into a handful of sites
that are more niche based they deleted
thousands of pages of content and they
saw their traffic go up because they
focused
their authority on irrelevant articles
that are super useful to people versus
air level moments so if you do those
strategies and implement them you can
recover your traffic if you need help
with this check out my ad agency np
digital if you enjoyed this video like
it share it tell the people about it if
you have any questions leave a comment
i'm here to help